🆚 Comparativa de bibliografía: Guia_docente_Derecho_Internacional_de_los_Derechos_Humanos (24211C5)
Grado: derecho (242)
==================================================

❌ Recursos eliminados (32):
------------------------------
A   moot   court   case   before  the  Inter-American  Court  of  Human  Rights  or  the  European  Court  of  Human
Rights.   The  hypothetical  case  would  be  announced  in  the  first  week  of  class.  Students  participating
in   this   activity   will   be   organized  in  groups  of  a  maximum  of  4  members.  Each  group  will  have  to
draft   and   hand   in  the  written  memoirs  of  the  plaintiff  and  the  defendant,  and  then  compete  in  the
oral   competition   with  the  other  teams.  RECOMMENDED  READING  ESSENTIAL  READING  There  is  no  doctrinal
work   that  covers  the  entire  syllabus.  Therefore,  the  following  textbooks  and  supplementary  readings
are recommended

Academic   supervision.   Description:  inter-action  “supervisor—student”.  Aim:  a)  To  offer  support  for
the   student’s   autonomous   learning;   b)   to   expand   or   deepen  particular  aspects  of  the  syllabus
content; c) to offer advice related to the student curriculum. Examination dates The exams will take
place   on   the   dates  set  by  the  Faculty  for  the  academic  year  2024-2025.  Students  are  reminded  that
the   exam   call,   specifying   the   place  and  time  of  the  exam  shall  be  published  on  PRADO.  It  is  the
responsibility   of   each   student   to   consult   this  information.  The  modification  of  the  assessment
system   (extraordinary   evaluation   by  Tribunal)  or  of  the  date  of  the  exams  (coincidence  with  other
subjects,   mobility  reasons,  or  incidents)  that  students  can  request  according  to  the  Regulations  of
evaluation   and  qualification  of  the  students  of  the  University  of  Granada  will  take  place  online  by
the   calendar   and   the   procedure   established   by   the   University   of   Granada   for   this  purpose
(https://sede.ugr.es/procs/Gestion-Academica-Solicitudde-evaluacion-por-incidencias/);   and   by   the
general   regulations   of   examinations   of   the   Department,   which   is   published   on  PRADO  and  the
Department's   website:   www.dipri.org.  Students  admitted  to  taking  any  of  those  above  "non-ordinary"
exams   should   bear   in   mind  that  the  type  of  exam  may  not  coincide  with  that  of  the  group  in  which
they   are   enrolled,  as  it  will  be,  as  a  general  rule,  a  written  exam  with  essay  questions.  Students
with   disabilities   or  other  specific  educational  support  needs  In  compliance  with  the  corresponding
regulations   of   the   University   of   Granada,  the  teaching  staff  of  the  Department  of  International
Public   Law   and   International  Relations  will  ensure  that  the  assessment  is  adapted  to  the  needs  of
said students, according to the recommendations of the Secretariat of Inclusion and Diversity of the
UGR,   by  establishing  as  many  methodological,  temporal  and  spatial  adaptations  as  necessary  for  this
purpose.   Open  Learning  and  Career  planning  During  the  academic  year,  instructors  will  keep  students
duly   informed   of   the   Open   Learning   and   professionalization  activities  organized  either  by  the
Faculty of Law or the other bodies of the University of Granada. These complementary activities will
strengthen   their   skills   and   competencies,   and   prepare   students   for  their  future  professional
careers.   Mentoring   and  counseling  The  University  of  Granada  has  created  several  organisms  tailored
to   respond   to  specific  issues  of  interest:  Prevention  of  and  Response  to  Harassment  Office  (OPRA):
https://www.ugr.es/info/perfil                     es/estudiantes/atencion-social-igualdad-inclusion-
sostenibilidad/igualdad-prevencionrespuesta-acoso       Equality       and       Conciliation      Unit:
https://viis.ugr.es/areas/igualdad-conciliacion   Psychopedagogical   Office  /  Academic  Guidance  Unit:
https://ve.ugr.es/secretariados-yunidades/orientacion          Student         Support         Service:
https://ve.ugr.es/servicios/asistencia-estudiantil/   Información   de   interés   para  estudiantado  con
discapacidad   y/o   Necesidades   Específicas  de  Apoyo  Educativo  (NEAE):  Gestión  de  servicios  y  apoyos
(https://ve.ugr.es/servicios/atencionsocial/estudiantes-con-discapacidad).     Powered     by     TCPDF
(www.tcpdf.org)

Charter-based mechanisms. The Human Rights Council and other subsidiary UN Charterbased bodies

Classes   or   Seminars.   Description:   Classes  or  seminars  are  small  group  discussions  and  provide  an
opportunity   to   explore   a   topic   in   greater   depth,   leaving   room   for  practical  activities  and
coursework   assessment.   Teaching  consists  of  a  mixture  of  lectures  and  classes/seminars,  running  in
parallel,   in   which   students   will   work  through  questions  and  problems  raised  in  the  lectures  and
present   and  discuss  their  results.  Lectures  are  attended  by  all  those  taking  the  course.  Classes  or
seminars   are   smaller,   comprising   half   of  the  students  enrolled  according  to  the  Class  Schedule.
Lectures   are   not   compulsory   but  are  strongly  recommended  —  except  for  students  who  may  require  a
certificate   of   attendance,   in  which  case  they  must  attend  at  least  80%  of  the  course.  Classes  and
seminars,   however,  are  entirely  mandatory  and  you  will  be  expected  to  prepare  and  fully  participate
in every class you Academic year: attend

Compilation of normative texts All the necessary normative texts for the study of the subject can be
found   on   the   internet   and   will   also   be   available  on  the  Prado  teaching  platform.  RECOMMENDED
LEARNING   RESOURCES/TOOLS   UN   SYSTEM   UN   UNHCHR   REGIONAL  SYSTEMS:  EUROPE  COUNCIL  OF  EUROPE  Treaty
Office   HUDOC   (case-law)  Torture  Minorities  EUROPEAN  UNION  Academic  year:  Fundamental  Rights  Agency
(FRA)   Court   of   Justice   of   the   EU  (case  law)  REGIONAL  SYSTEMS:  AMERICA  ORGANIZATION  OF  AMERICAN
STATES   (OAS)   Human   Rights  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights  Inter-American  Court  of  Human
Rights   REGIONAL   SYSTEMS:   AFRICA   AFRICAN   UNION   Law,  democracy  and  human  rights  Treaties  African
Commission   on   Human   and   Peoples’  Rights  African  Court  on  Human  and  Peoples’  Rights  INTERNATIONAL
CRIMINAL   COURT   TEACHING   METHODS  conceptos  fundamentales  y  desarrollo  de  los  contenidos  propuestos
pretende   mostrar   al   alumnado   cómo   debe   actuar   a   partir  de  la  aplicación  de  los  conocimientos
adquiridos   donde   tratar   en   profundidad   una   temática   relacionada   con   la   materia  no  guiadas)
propuestas   por   el   profesor   para   profundizar   en   aspectos   concretos   de  la  materia  para  que  el
estudiante   avance   en   la   adquisición   conocimientos   y   procedimientos   de  la  materia,  2)  Estudio
individualizado   de  los  contenidos  de  la  materia  3)  Actividades  evaluativas  (informes,  exámenes,...)
aprendizaje   que   se   basa   en   la   interacción  entre  el  estudiante  y  el  profesor  ASSESSMENT  METHODS
(Instruments,   criteria   and   percentages)  ORDINARY  EXAMINATION  DIET  The  preferred  system  is  that  of
continuous   assessment.   All  students  will  be  part  of  the  continuous  assessment  system,  except  those
students   who   have   been   granted   the   so-called   “single  assessment  system”  (or  “Evaluación  Única
Final”),   upon  telematic  application  within  the  period  established  by  the  University.  The  continuous
assessment   system  of  student  learning  is  based  on  a  combination  of  the  following  activities:  A  mid-
term   exam   is   scheduled  for  the  date  indicated  in  the  course  schedule  to  be  published  on  the  first
day   of  class.  or  A  final  written  or  oral  exam  (60%)  on  the  official  date  established  by  the  Faculty
of   Law   (“Convocatoria  ordinaria”  or  Finals).  A  minimum  mark  of  5  out  of  10  is  required  to  pass  the
exam,   a   sine   qua  non-condition  to  sum  the  practical  activities  and  to  be  able  to  pass  the  course.
and   Participation   in   one  of  the  proposed  practical  activities  (40%):  the  moot  court,  the  Academic
year:   elaboration   and   presentation   of   a  poster  or  the  elaboration  and  presentation  of  a  caselaw
commentary.   The   overall   grade   will  correspond  to  the  pondered  score  of  the  different  aspects  and
activities   that   integrate   the   evaluation   system.  This  weighted  score  will  be  detailed  with  more
precision   in   the   course  Didactic  Guide.  Therefore,  the  Didactic  Guide  will  specify  the  assessment
criteria   in   the   continuous  assessment  and  single  final  assessment  modalities,  both  for  the  Finals
(“convocatoria   ordinaria”)   and  the  Resit  exams  (“convocatoria  extraordinaria”).  The  grading  system
will   be   expressed   using   a   numerical   grade  per  the  provisions  of  Art.  5  of  R.D.  1125/2003,  of  5
September,   which   establishes   the   European   credit   system   and   the   grading  system  for  official
university degrees valid in Spain. EXTRAORDINARY EXAMINATION DIET Students shall be assessed through
an   oral   exam   of   no  less  than  2  long  answer  questions  from  the  entire  syllabus.  Questions  will  be
sections   or   subsections   of   the   syllabus.   Each  question  is  worth  10  points.  Instructors  may  ask
additional   short   questions  to  adjust  the  mark.  Students  will  have  time  to  write  a  brief  outline  of
the   oral   questions   before   the   oral   presentation.   Students   must  answer  all  questions.  A  blank
question   is   equivalent  to  failing  the  exam.  To  pass  the  exam,  the  student  must  obtain  at  least  50%
of the total points (i.e. a minimum of 10 points out of a possible 20 points). The exam mark will be
100%   of   the   final   grade.   SINGLE  FINAL  ASSESSMENT  (evaluación  única  final)  Students  who  have  not
followed   the   continuous   assessment  and  have  been  granted  the  right  to  sit  the  final  exam  shall  be
assessed   through   an   oral   exam   of  no  less  than  2  long  answer  questions  from  the  entire  syllabus.
Questions   will   be   sections   or   subsections   of   the   syllabus.  Each  question  is  worth  10  points.
Instructors   may  ask  additional  short  questions  to  adjust  the  mark.  Students  will  have  time  to  write
a   brief   outline   of   the   oral   questions   before   the  oral  presentation.  Students  must  answer  all
questions.   A   blank   question  is  equivalent  to  failing  the  exam.  To  pass  the  exam,  the  student  must
obtain   at   least  50%  of  the  total  points  (i.e.  a  minimum  of  10  points  out  of  a  possible  20  points).
The   exam   mark   will   be   100%  of  the  final  grade.  ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION  Individual  and  collective
learning   activities   All  teaching  activities  will  encourage  students’  participation  and  commitment.
They will be the following

Elaboration   of  a  poster  with  the  graphic  representation  of  a  theme  (assigned  or  chosen)  from  a  list
provided by the instructors at the beginning of the semester. In addition, the students will make an
oral presentation of their work

Enforcement of ECtHR judgments in Spain

Enforcement.   UNIVERSAL   AND   REGIONAL  SYSTEMS  OF  PROMOTING  AND  PROTECTING  HUMAN  RIGHTS  Topic  3.  The
United Nations system Principal organs

Human   rights   and   freedoms   in   the   European   Union:  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights  of  the  EU.
Academic year: Topic 5. Regional protection of human rights (II): the American and African systems

Individual activities (autonomous learning). Description: a) Activities intended to expand or deepen
certain   syllabus   contents  (e.g.  a  glossary);  b)  Autonomous  study;  c)  Assessment  activities  (tests,
oral   presentations,   exams)   Aim:   To   foster  the  students’  capability  of  planning,  developing,  and
assessing   their   learning   efforts,   as   well  as  adapting  them  to  their  particular  situation  and/or
interests

International   criminal   courts   and  tribunals.  The  International  Criminal  Court.  Topic  7.  Spain  and
the International Human Rights Law

International law before the 20th century. Early 20th century precedents

Lectures.   Description:   The   lectures   provide   a   broad  overview  of  a  topic,  highlighting  the  main
concepts included in the syllabus

Other mechanisms for the protection of human rights

Promotion    and   protection   of   human   rights:   Promotion   mechanisms.   Compliance   and   monitoring
mechanisms. Complaint procedures

Protection of human rights at the Council of Europe

Regional organizations. Topic 2. Legal overview

Spain before the international monitoring bodies

Supplementary   readings   AN-NAIM,  A.A.:  Decolonising  Human  Rights,  Cambridge  University  Press,  2021.
ANTKOWIAK,   TH   &   GONZA,   A.:   The  American  Convention  on  Human  Rights.  Essential  Rights,  Cambridge
University   Press,   2017.   BURGORGUE-LARSEN,   L.:   La   Convention   européenne  des  droits  de  l’homme,
L.G.D.J.   –   Textenso   Éditions,   Paris,   2012.   DE   SOUSA   SANTOS,   B.  and  MARTINS,  B.S.  (eds),  The
Pluriverse   of   Human   Rights:  The  Diversity  of  Struggles  for  Dignity,  Routledge,  2021.  DZEHTSIAROU,
K.; DE LONDRAS, F.: Great Debates on the European Convention on Human Rights, Palgrave, 2018. EVANS,
M.D.;   MURRAY,   R.   (eds.)  The  African  Charter  on  Human  and  People’s  Rights.  The  System  in  Practice,
1986-2000,   Cambridge   University   Press,   2002.   GIBNEY,   M.   et   al.  (eds.),  Routledge  Handbook  on
Extraterritorial   Human   Rights  Obligations,  Taylor  and  Francis  Group,  2021.  GREER,  S.;  GERARDS,  J.;
SLOWE,   R:   Human   Rights   in  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  European  Union.  Achievements,  Trends  and
Challenges,   Cambridge  University  Press,  2018.  SICILIANOS,  L.-A.;  KOSTOPOULOU,  M.-A.:  The  individual
application   under   the   European   Convention   on  Human  Rights.  Procedural  Guide,  Council  of  Europe,
Strasbourg,   2019.  The  implementation  of  judgments  of  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights,  Council  of
Europe,   Strasbourg,   2018.   VILJOEN,  F:  International  Human  Rights  Law  in  Africa,  Oxford  University
Press, Oxford, 2007

Textbooks ALSTON, Ph.; GOODMAN, R.: International Human Rights. The successor to International Human
Rights   in   context,  Oxford  University  Press,  Oxford,  2012.  BANTEKAS,  I.,  &  OETTE,  L.:  International
Human   Rights   Law  and  Practice  (4th  ed.).  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  2024  BINDER,  C,  et
al.   (eds),   Elgar   Encyclopedia   of  Human  Rights,  Edward  Elgar,  2022.  DE  BÚRCA,  G.,  Reframing  Human
Rights   in   a   Turbulent   Era,   Oxford   University  Press,  2021.  DE  SCHUTTER,  O.:  International  Human
Rights   Law.   Cases,   Materials,   Commentary,   3rd.,   Academic   year:   Cambridge   University   Press,
Cambridge,   2019.   MÉGRET,   F.   and   ALSTON,   Ph.:   The   United  Nations  and  Human  Rights:  A  Critical
Appraisal, Oxford University Press, 2020. MOECKLI, D. et al. (eds.), International Human Rights Law,
4th   ed,   Oxford   University   Press,  2022.  SHELTON,  D.:  Advanced  Introduction  to  International  Human
Rights   Law,   2ª   ed.,   Ed.   Edward   Elgar,   Cheltenham/Northampton,   2020.  SHELTON,  D.:  Remedies  in
international human rights law, 3rd. ed., Oxford University Press, 2015. COMPLEMENTARY READING

The African Union (AU) and the protection of human rights: the African Charter on Human and People’s
Rights system. Topic 6. The repression of certain gross violations of human rights

The European Convention on Human Rights system

The   Organization   of   American   States   (OAS)   and   the   protection   of   human  rights:  the  American
Convention on Human Rights system

The Spanish Constitution and IHRL

The United Nations Charter and the International Bill of Rights

The law of human rights. Human rights obligations

The post-war human rights revolution

The   universal   jurisdiction   principle   and   its   effects  on  the  Spanish  judicial  system.  PRACTICAL
SYLLABUS   Students   who   opt  for  the  continuous  assessment  system  will  have  to  participate  in  one  of
the practical activities that will be organized throughout the semester. These may include

The universal jurisdiction principle. Universal jurisdiction in selected domestic legal orders

Treaty-based   mechanisms.   UN   Treaty   bodies.  Topic  4.  Regional  protection  of  human  rights  (I):  the
European system

Written   commentary   of   a   judgment   or   decision   of   an   international  (quasi-)  judicial  body.  In
addition, the students will make an oral presentation of their work

bibliografía).   información   y   en   la   comunicación   de   datos.   histórica  y  en  su  realidad  actual.
LEARNING   OUTCOMES   On   successful   completion  of  the  course  the  student  will  be  able  to:  Knowledge:
Academic    year:    Understand    the   sources,   nature,   scope,   and   institutional   architecture   of
international   and   regional   human   rights   law.   Critically  evaluate  the  value  and  limits  of  human
rights law as a framework for addressing different societal challenges. Skills: Apply legal research
and   writing   skills   to   a   topical   issue  or  case  in  the  field  of  international  and  regional  human
rights   law.   Critically   examine,  orally  present  and  nurture  discussions  on  tensions  and  challenges
related   to  the  application  of  international  regional  human  rights  law  in  practice.  PLANNED  LEARNING
ACTIVITIES   THEORY   SYLLABUS  This  syllabus  is  based  on  Prof.  Diego  J.  Liñán’s  «Derecho  Internacional
de los Derechos Humanos» course and has been updated and adapted by Professors Amelia Díaz and Ozana
Olariu. GENERAL APPROACHES TO THE INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS LAW (IHRL) Topic 1. Historical overview

📚 Recursos sin cambios (0):
------------------------------
No hay elementos.

✅ Recursos añadidos (34):
------------------------------
ALSTON, Ph.; GOODMAN, R.: International Human Rights. The successor to International Human Rights in
Context, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2012

ANTKOWIAK,   TH   &   GONZA,   A.:   The  American  Convention  on  Human  Rights.  Essential  Rights,  Cambridge
University Press, 2017

BANTEKAS,   I.,   &   OETTE,   L.:   International   Human   Rights   Law  and  Practice  (4th  ed.).  Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2024

BUERGENTHAL, T.; NORRIS, R.; SHELTON, D.: La protección de los derechos humanos en las Américas, Ed.
Civitas, Madrid, 1990

BURGORGUE-LARSEN,   L.:  La  Convention  européenne  des  droits  de  l’homme,  L.G.D.J.  –  Textenso  Éditions,
Paris, 2012

CANÇADO   TRINDADE,   A.A.:  El  Derecho  Internacional  de  los  Derechos  Humanos  en  el  Siglo  XXI,  Jurídica
de Las Américas, 2009

CARDONA   Ll,  J.;  SANZ  CABALLERO,  S.;  ARRUFAT  CARDAVA,  A.:  La  protección  internacional  de  la  persona,
1ª ed., Ed. Tirant lo Blanch, 2022

CASADEVALL,   J.:   El   Convenio   europeo   de   derechos   humanos,   el   Tribunal   de   Estrasburgo   y  su
jurisprudencia, Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia, 2012

Cómo    presentar   una   demanda   ante   el   Tribunal   Europeo   de   Derechos   Humanos:   condiciones   de
admisibilidad   y   modificaciones  recientes  del  procedimiento,  3ª  ed.  Ed.  Tirant  lo  Blanch,  Valencia,
2020

DE   SCHUTTER,   O.:   International  Human  Rights  Law.  Cases,  Materials,  Commentary,  3rd  ed.,  Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, 2019

DZEHTSIAROU, K.; DE LONDRAS, F.: Great Debates on the European Convention on Human Rights, Palgrave,
2018

ESCOBAR   HERNÁNDEZ,   C.:   «La   protección   internacional  de  los  derechos  humanos»,  Capítulos  XXVII  y
XXVIII,   de   la   obra   de   M.   Díez   de  Velasco:  Instituciones  de  Derecho  Internacional  Público,  18ª
ed.,reimpr., Ed. Tecnos, Madrid, 2016

EVANS,   M.D.;   MURRAY,   R.   (eds.)   The   African  Charter  on  Human  and  People’s  Rights.  The  System  in
Practice, 1986-2000, Cambridge University Press, 2002

El   Tribunal   Europeo   de   Derechos   Humanos:   una   visión   desde   dentro.  En  homenaje  al  juez  Josep
Casadevall,   LÓPEZ   GUERRA,   L.;   MORTE   GÓMEZ,   C.;   MENGUAL   I   MALLOL,  A.  M.  ;  CANO  PALOMARES,  G.
(coords.), Ed. Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia, 2015

GONZÁLEZ   MORALES,   F.:   Sistema   interamericano   de   derechos  humanos:  transformaciones  y  desafíos.
Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia, 2013

GREER,   S.;   GERARDS,   J.;   SLOWE,   R:  Human  Rights  in  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  European  Union.
Achievements, Trends and Challenges, Cambridge University Press, 2018

HENNEBEL,   L   &   TIGROUDJA,   H   :   Commentary   of   the   American   Convention  on  Human  Rights,  Oxford
University Press, 2022

LASAGABASTER HERRARTE, I.: Convenio Europeo de Derechos Humanos. Comentario Sistematico, 4ª ed., Ed.
Aranzadi, Pamplona, 2021

LIÑÁN   NOGUERAS,  D.J.:  «Derechos  humanos  y  libertades  fundamentales  en  la  Unión  Europea»,  Capítulo  5
de   la  obra  A.  Mangas  Martín  /  D.J.  Liñán  Nogueras:  Instituciones  y  Derecho  de  la  Unión  Europea,  11ª
ed., Tecnos, Madrid, 2024

LIÑÁN   NOGUERAS,   D.J.:   «La   aplicación  en  España  de  los  tratados  relativos  a  derechos  y  libertades
fundamentales",   Cuadernos   de   derecho   judicial,   Consejo  General  del  Poder  Judicial,  pp.  269-328.
«Efectos   de   las   sentencias  del  Tribunal  Europeo  de  Derechos  Humanos  y  Derecho  español»,  R.E.D.I.,
XXXVII, 1985-2, pp. 355-376

LÓPEZ   GUERRA,L:   El   Convenio   Europeo  de  Derechos  Humanos.  Según  la  jurisprudencia  del  Tribunal  de
Estrasburgo, Ed. Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia, 2021

MORTE   GÓMEZ,   C.:   “Eficacia  de  las  sentencias  del  Tribunal  Europeo  de  Derechos  Humanos”,  Cursos  de
derechos   humanos  de  Donostia-San  Sebastián,  Vol.  11,  2011  (La  eficacia  del  Derecho  Internacional  de
los   Derechos   Humanos),   págs.   225-242.   Cómo   presentar   una   demanda  ante  el  Tribunal  Europeo  de
Derechos   Humanos:  condiciones  de  admisibilidad  y  modificaciones  recientes  del  procedimiento,  3ª  ed.
Ed. Tirant lo Blanch, Valencia, 2020

Manual recomendado para la preparación de la asignatura

No   existe   ninguna   obra  doctrinal  que  se  adapte  íntegramente  al  contenido  del  programa,  por  lo  que
resulta indispensable para su preparación la utilización de varias obras que abordan diversas partes
del   mismo.   A  continuación  se  cita  una  serie  de  referencias  bibliográficas  fundamentales  que,  junto
con   las   indicaciones   de   la   profesora  encargada  de  su  impartición,  podrán  guiar  el  estudio  de  la
asignatura

QUISPE   RAMÓN,   F.:   Los   derechos  humanos  en  el  sistema  interamericano,  Tirant  lo  Blanch,  Valencia,
2018

ROLDÁN   BARBERO,   F.  J.:  «La  protección  de  los  derechos  humanos»,  Capítulo  VIII  de  la  obra  del  mismo
autor: Las relaciones exteriores de España, Universidad de Almería / Ed. Dykinson, Madrid, 2001

SHELTON,   D.:   Advanced   Introduction   to   International  Human  Rights  Law,  2ª  ed.,  Ed.  Edward  Elgar,
Cheltenham/Northampton, 2020

VAZQUEZ   SERRANO,   L.:  Principio  de  jurisdicción  universal  y  su  encrucijada  ¿utopia  o  el  mundo  real?
Ed. Aranzadi, Pamplona, 2020

VILJOEN, F: International Human Rights Law in Africa, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2007

VILLÁN DURÁN, C.: Manual de Derecho Internacional de los Derechos Humanos, Ed. Ubijus, México, 2016

VILLÁN   DURÁN,   C.;   FALEH   PEREZ,   C.:   Sistema  universal  de  protección  de  los  derechos  humanos.  Su
aplicación en España, Ed. Tecnos, Madrid, 2017

«Efectos   de   las   sentencias  del  Tribunal  Europeo  de  Derechos  Humanos  y  Derecho  español»,  R.E.D.I.,
XXXVII, 1985-2, pp. 355-376

«La aplicación en España de los tratados relativos a derechos y libertades fundamentales", Cuadernos
de derecho judicial, Consejo General del Poder Judicial, pp. 269-328

“Eficacia de las sentencias del Tribunal Europeo de Derechos Humanos”, Cursos de derechos humanos de
Donostia-San   Sebastián,   Vol.   11,   2011   (La   eficacia   del   Derecho  Internacional  de  los  Derechos
Humanos), págs. 225-242

📊 Porcentaje estimado de cambio: 100% [██████████]
